Foreign diplomats and international aid organisations appear to be taking a wait-and-see approach to the Taliban’s new morality law, as it’s still too early to tell how strictly the rules will be enforced and what the effects on daily life and relief work across Afghanistan will be. When Afghanistan’s Taliban-led government ratified a new series of amendments to the rules in August, it was feared it would set back efforts both to increase international engagement with the Islamic Emirate and to respond to one of the world's worst humanitarian crises. The announcement of the law, which dictates how men and women can dress in public, what content people can store on their smartphones, and whether Afghans can befriend non-Muslims, came just weeks after a breakthrough UN-led meeting in Qatar that saw Taliban officials sit face-to-face with senior foreign envoys for the first time. The morality law shift caught diplomats and aid workers by surprise. They began to question how its enforcement would affect their ability to engage with Afghans and work with their local colleagues at a time when 23.7 million people remain in need of assistance. After the seeming optimism of the Doha gathering, it also led to strong criticism from foreign governments. Australia, Canada, Germany, and The Netherlands said they would take the Islamic Emirate to the International Court of Justice for its "contempt" for the rights of women. Rights activists and celebrities also took on the law. During a speech on the sidelines of the UN General Assembly, Academy Award-winning actress Meryl Streep claimed the law forbade women from speaking outside the home and said, "Today in Kabul a female cat has more freedom than a woman." But those determined to continue engaging with the Taliban or to carry on aid work in Afghanistan are looking beyond the media furore, perpetuated in part by politicians from the former Western-backed government, to try to understand the real-life implications of the law. What does the law actually change? The 35 amendments to the Law on Promoting Virtue and Preventing Vice include prohibitions on everything from men’s haircuts that are deemed to be against shari’a to storing any visual representations of living beings on mobile phones. Building on the existing law, the amendments also prohibit women